_Describe how to install the project before running predictors_

= Conventions =

 * %DATA_SET% - Directory containing the extracted data set files supplied by Netflix (containing the download folder).
 * %PROJECT_HOME% - Directory containing the oknetflix project source.

= Installation Steps =

 # Download the supplied betterprobe.txt from the project's Downloads page and save it under %DATA_SET%/downloads (the directory that contains the training_set directory with all 17770 text files).
 # Open the project source code with your preferred IDE. *In Eclipse:* go to "File->Import->Existing Projects Into Workspace" and select the %PROJECT_HOME% folder (Please notice that if you don't use Eclipse you'll need to manually add the supplied jama1.0.2.jar file located under %PROJECT_HOME%/lib to the project's classpath). 
 # Change NETFLIX_MODEL_DIR initialization in "Constants.java" file from "E:/FinalProject..." into %DATA_SET%/downloads (the folder containing the downloaded betterprobe.txt file).
 # Change NETFLIX_OUTPUT_DIR initialization in "Constants.java" file from "E:/FinalProject..." into %PROJECT_HOME%/binFiles.
 # Compile "Installer.java" and run the compiled code. *In Eclipse:* open the Installer class (ctrl+shift+t) and go to "Run->Run Configurations...". Then, add a new "Java Application" runner and write the following parameters in the arguments tab under "VM Arguments": "-Xmx3300m -Xms3300m". Then simply press "Run" and wait until the class will finish running.

Now you are ready to move on to the Usage wiki for instructions on how to run the various predictors.